Day 2 Summary

1. The AMAZON  vpc allows you provide a console interface that allows you to use vpc. It is a virtual network dedicated to AWS account. It is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS Cloud. 
VPC could be custom or default. various specifications such as IP address range for the VPC, subnets, gateways, and associate security groups. A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC.

Default VPC is a Virtual network which is automatically created for customer AWS account the very 1st time EC2 resources are provisioned. 
On the other hand, custom is not automatically created when EC2 resources are provisioned and customer needs to create own VPC.
Default VPC is automatically created by AWS system while customer/nondefault VPC needs to be manually configured by each customer and resources need to be provisioned.

2.Types of Subnet
 
Public subnet: The subnet traffic is routed to the public internet through an internet gateway or an egress-only internet gateway. 

Private subnet: The subnet traffic can't reach the public internet through an internet gateway or egress-only internet gateway. Access to the public internet requires a NAT device.

VPN-only subnet: The subnet traffic is routed to a Site-to-Site VPN connection through a virtual private gateway. The subnet traffic can't reach the public internet through an internet gateway.


3. NAT Gateway 
It is a Network Address Translation(NAT)service. It is used so that an instances in a private subnet can connect to services outside your VPC.
It may be public or private. 

public NAT gateway cand be created in a public subnet and must associate an elastic IP address with teh NAT Gateway at initial stage of creation.
You route traffic from the NAT gateway to the internet gateway for the VPC. Alternatively, you can use a public NAT gateway to connect to other VPCs or your on-premises network. 
In this case, you route traffic from the NAT gateway through a transit gateway or a virtual private gateway.

private: Instances in private subnets can connect to other VPCs or your on-premises network through a private NAT gateway. You can route traffic from the NAT gateway through a transit gateway or a virtual private gateway
You cannot associate an elastic IP address with a private NAT gateway. You can attach an internet gateway to a VPC with a private NAT gateway,however, the Internet gateway drops traffic if you toute traffic from the private NAT Gateway to the internet gateway.


4. Difference between Network ACL and Security

i. The main difference between Network ACL and Security is that Security groups are tied to an instance whereas Network ACLs are tied to the subnet.

ii. Security group supports allow rules only e.g. You cannot deny a certain IP address from establishing a connection whereas Network ACL supports allow and deny rules.

iii. Security groups evaluate all the rules in them before allowing a traffic whereas NACLs do it in the number order, from top to bottom.